[ Low, humming music plays ]
♪♪
[ Music intensifies ]
‐Don't do this.
‐It's done. And it's final.
♪♪
‐Let me tell my crew.
‐Go home.
We'll show you the language
when it's ready.
[ Dog tags clink ]
♪♪
[ Sighs ]
[ Spigot sputters ]
‐Okay. My turn.
[ Grunts ]
[ Light clicks ]
[ Bolt squeaks ]
[ Clatter, thunk ]
[ Grunts, groans ]
[ Snap ]
[ Unlocks door,
door rattles ]
[ Clatters, squeaks ]
[ Thunk ]
[ Thudding ]
[ Cellphone buzzes ]
‐Incoming call.
[ Tools thunk heavily,
cellphone buzzes ]
Incoming call.
[ Cellphone buzzes ]
‐[ Cellphone buzzes ]
‐Incoming call.
‐[ Tone rings ]
‐Hagerty.
‐Good morning, Captain Hagerty.
This is Aaron Shultz
from The New York Times.
I was wondering if I could ‐‐
‐How did you get this number?
‐We had it on file.
A colleague of mine
did an interview a few years ‐‐
‐Not doing press today.
‐As the original commander of
the mission, would you like t‐‐
‐End call.
‐[ Tone rings ]
TV.
Screen on.
‐An estimated 2 billion people
are watching around the world
to witness this
historic moment ‐‐
the launch of the first
human mission to Mars.
In just a few short hours,
the five astronauts
of Providence 1
will leave Earth to embark
on their 2 1/2‐year journey
to Mars and back.
We're now gonna take you
live to the launch center
in Louisiana, where Laz Ingram,
the founder and CEO of VISTA,
is joining us.
Good morning, Ms. Ingram.
‐[ British accent ]
Thanks for having me.
‐It's been a long road
getting here.
‐Yes, eight years since NASA
awarded us the Mars contract.
Eight very challenging years.
‐Walk us through
what we can expect
in the days and months ahead.
‐Gladly.
Once the crew
has achieved orbit,
they'll dock with
the Mars Transit Vehicle.
The astronauts will climb aboard
and conduct
what we call a shakedown ‐‐
a rigorous series
of diagnostic tests ‐‐
and then they'll initiate
the first long burn,
sending them on their way.
Seven months later,
they'll arrive at Mars,
descend to the surface,
spend 18 months before
they launch in the MAV
back to the Transit Vehicle
and make their journey home.
But aside from
accomplishing the feats ‐‐
‐Mute.
[ Silence ]
‐... the very first human
looked up at the stars
and wondered in whatever
language she spoke on,
"What is it? What's out there?"
These are the answers
that we continue to search for.
‐I just have to ask,
and I'm sure everyone else
wants to know,
what is going through
your mind right now?
‐Too much to...
How can I possibly reply?
That's irrelevant.
‐But none of this would be
happening without you.
Are you happy?
Nervous?
‐I'm focused. We still have
a lot of work ahead of us.
‐Well, congratulations,
Ms. Ingram.
We know that you're busy
and need to get to the launch.
Thanks for spending some time
with us this morning.
‐It's been an absolute pleasure.
Thank you.
‐And we're off.
♪♪
‐Mm.
‐Weather?
‐Weather is a go.
No constraints for launch.
‐TDL weather.
‐Flight, the only TIL center,
beginning in launch window 1‐A.
Crosswind of the others
are out of limit.
‐Okay, let's wait and see
how things progress.
‐Are we go for crew to
proceed to the launch pad?
‐We are a go.
♪♪
[ Indistinct talking ]
‐Flight crew has arrived
at pad surface
and are entering the elevators.
‐Copy. Range?
‐On stage,
confirm that we are a go.
‐Weather continues to look
very good.
‐Shallow seas.
‐If we go 10 minutes later we'll
have two‐way as well.
‐Copy. Let's give crew
maximum flexibility.
Wait 10 to 15.
‐Copy. That should do it.
‐In just a minute, you'll see
them coming across.
‐Copy.
[ Speaking indistinctly ]
Awaiting report.
‐Standby process to RL.
‐Copy.
‐FPM sealing tank,
pressurization complete.
‐Copy that.
‐[ Speaking indistinctly ]
♪♪
[ Dog whimpers, pants ]
‐What do you think?
[ Dog whimpers ]
Fuck it.
Call CAPCOM.
Secure line.
‐Calling CAPCOM, secure line.
[ Tone rings ]
‐Sir.
‐Patch him to me.
‐Roger that.
[ Clears throat ]
He wants 30 seconds
with the crew, non‐public.
‐What for?
‐Uh, just some words,
wish them luck.
LC says they can swing it.
We owe him as much.
‐Fine.
‐That's a go.
‐Stand by. We'll have a window
in just a moment.
Putting you through now.
Matt, we've got a surprise
for you all.
‐Please don't tell me we have
a weather hold.
‐[ Radio crackles ]
‐Skies couldn't be clearer.
‐Hags, is that you?
‐Last time I checked.
‐Well, hot damn.
This is a nice surprise.
‐How y'all doing in there?
‐Snug as bugs.
‐Well, I just called
to say Godspeed.
I'm watching...
and I'm with you in spirit.
‐How we looking on TV?
‐Real good. Even Kwame.
[ Laughter ]
‐You mean you don't
miss the mustache?
‐[ Chuckles ]
Not for a second.
‐Any final words of advice?
‐Just do whatever Mattie says.
‐Listen to the man.
‐And don't clog the shitter.
[ Laughter ]
‐He's talking to you, Lou.
‐I guess, so I'm never gonna live
that down, huh?
‐Not for another 2 1/2 years.
‐Yeah, thanks, Tom.
‐Sorry to break up the party,
but we need to clear the line.
‐All right, you guys,
nothing sentimental here.
Just do your thing.
You got this.
‐Means a lot, Tom ‐‐
you calling us.
‐Never mind that.
Now, go make some history.
‐And we're off.
‐Thank you. End call.
[ Tone rings ]
[ Groans ]
[ Dog approaches ]
[ Sighs ]
Well...
tell me you wouldn't have
missed me if I'd gone.
♪♪
‐Pressure.
‐Pressure steady at 15 32.
‐Systems A.
‐Systems A go.
‐Systems B.
‐Systems B go.
‐Systems backup.
‐Backup go.
‐Weather.
‐Weather is still observed
and forecast to be go.
♪♪
‐Listen, you guys, uh,
I just want to say, it's...
it's an honor to share
this tin can with you all.
‐Ah, don't make us puke
before we get up there.
‐[ Laughter ]
‐No, I mean it.
Seriously, I couldn't ask
for a better crew.
♪♪
‐T‐minus 9 poll is complete.
Resume count on my mark.
3, 2, 1, mark.
‐GLS auto‐sequence
has been initiated.
♪♪
‐Okay, Mattie, we're feeling
pretty good down here.
On behalf of everyone
on the ground,
it's an honor to assist
as you embark
on the longest journey
any humans have ever taken.
Matt...
Luis...
Adrienne...
Cathleen...
Kwame...
Godspeed, good luck.
Try to have a little fun
up there.
‐You guys make that easy.
And thanks.
Thanks to you, and thanks to
the thousands of men and women
who give their souls,
their hearts,
and their lives
in the cause of exploration.
Okay, let's light this fire.
Providence is ready to launch.
‐Thank you, sir.
Let's get going.
‐That was a very nice
speech, Matthew.
‐Yeah, fuck off.
‐Did you write that
all by yourself?
‐Hell no!
Ellen wrote that for my ass.
‐Of course she did.
‐Hey, what can I say?
I married up.
‐90 seconds, people.
♪♪
‐White Room's pulling back.
‐Here we go, folks.
One minute downstairs.
‐You getting nervous?
‐Do I look nervous?
[ Chuckling ]
‐Cabin pressure is probably
gonna give us an alarm.
‐LOX and hydrogen‐filling
valves are closed.
‐[ Alarm sounds ]
‐And there it goes.
‐Disregard.
‐Copy.
‐T‐minus 30 seconds.
‐Range green.
‐Stable at step 3.
Status check.
‐Providence is a go.
‐Launch team is go for launch.
Handoff to Providence
computers has occurred.
Solid rocket booster nozzle
steering check in work.
‐15.
‐Let's do it.
‐Go for main engine start.
T‐minus 10, 9, 8,
‐[ Whoosh ]
‐...7, 6, 5, 4...
‐Four at 100.
‐...3, 2, 1...
♪♪
‐There goes tower.
‐We have liftoff
for Providence 1.
[ Rumbling ]
And thus marks an
historic moment for humanity ‐‐
the first manned mission
to Mars
launching
to escape Earth's gravity
on a voyage to the red planet.
The dreams of billions
are with them.
‐Four at 104.
‐Vista, roll program.
‐Roger. Roll, Providence.
♪♪
‐Four at 72.
‐Go, you son of a bitch.
‐Looking good from here,
Providence.
Throttle up to 104.
‐Roger go. Throttle up.
‐Standby for staging.
♪♪
[ Ominous music plays ]
[ Metallic warbling ]
♪♪
‐The dirt beneath our feet...
...it pulls down on every step.
[ Ding ]
♪♪
It brings everything
back to the center.
[ Coin clatters, echoes ]
♪♪
[ Screaming, shouting ]
‐There is confusion in
the grandstands here
at the liftoff of Providence 1.
‐Call Kayla.
‐I'm being told
that Mission Control
will be reviewing what...
‐All circuits are busy.
‐Try again.
‐[ Busy signal ]
‐All circuits are busy.
‐Try again.
‐[ Busy signal ]
‐All circuits are busy.
‐Try again!
Open!
[ Tires squeal ]
♪♪
Folks, all of this has got to go
before the families arrive.
♪♪
Champagne.
Get the champagne off the table.
♪♪
Coming through.
[ Sirens chirp ]
♪♪
[ Doors open, close ]
‐Don't say anything.
Are they all ready?
‐Everyone's ready.
‐Thank you.
♪♪
‐State and Defense
have been notified.
Got a call with
the president in 10.
‐Well, then, let's speak after.
I need to...
‐Okay.
‐Everyone,
your attention, please.
[ Footsteps echoing ]
‐Our machine...failed us.
Five brave explorers
have been lost.
And, um, as much as we all knew
that was a possibility...
...I'm, um...
I'm utterly shocked, as I'm sure
all of you are, as well.
We have counselors available
for anyone who needs them.
And, in fact, any of your needs,
please take them to HR.
The most important thing
is that we support one another
as a team, and, um...
...that we d‐don't descend
into despair.
‐This is the moment.
‐No alarm at separation?
‐It has to be
the booster separation motors.
The outer shell should have been
able to withstand
at least 50,000 pounds of
blast pressure from each motor.
We had three layers
of redundancy.
If there was any kind of
mechanical malfunction
or pressure deviation,
the automatic abort
would have initiated.
It just doesn't ‐‐
doesn't make sense.
How can we have
a separation malfunction
without any data
showing any abnormality?
If we had a sensor issue
with one of the motors,
the other ones would've
picked it up.
That's what I don't understand.
We've modeled thousands
of different scenarios.
I‐I can't even imagine
what we might have missed.
‐Could you give us a second,
please?
‐Sure.
‐You can't put this
on yourself.
‐It was my design.
‐There were thousands of people
involved in that design.
‐And I led them.
‐And they need a leader now.
We need to keep it together.
If we do, then they will.
What can I do?
H‐How can I help?
‐I'm all right.
‐Are you sure?
‐Yeah.
Yeah, I'll get the booster team
at the build facility,
get some eyes on the hardware.
‐Okay, thank you, everyone.
Let's stop the work
till the families get through.
Tried to call.
‐Lines were jammed.
‐Green room's ready.
‐Thank you.
‐[ Sobs ]
♪♪
‐Hey, you.
[ Indistinct talking ]
‐You hungry?
‐I'm...
No. Thanks.
‐How about you? You hungry?
Yeah?
Come here.
Last time I saw you,
you were about that big.
Here.
[ Chair scrapes ]
Climb up there.
‐You're an astronaut, like Dad?
‐I used to be.
You like ham?
How about chicken?
My daughter
doesn't like meat, either,
so watch what we'll do here.
And this...
And now you've got...
a double‐cheese sandwich.
There you go.
‐Who gets to decide?
‐To decide what?
‐Who dies.
‐Here.
I'll show you something.
‐[ Laughs ]
‐Your turn.
Perfect. Okay.
You want to take it back
and sit with your mom?
‐Did you ask him to come?
‐He was here when we arrived.
It would mean a lot to them
that he's here.
Do you want to talk to him?
‐No.
And the families?
‐Yeah, well...
We're gonna wait an hour or so
before they get briefed.
‐Well, whatever
you think is best.
‐Anything I can tell them?
‐Not right now. Um...
I'll check in later.
End call.
[ Tone rings ]
‐He waves his finger at me.
"Mom, I'm going to be
too big to fit in my seat."
I say, "You'll thank me. I know
how bad this freeze‐dry is."
Then after dinner,
we have presents...
...for the birthdays
he'll be gone.
He says, "No. Bad luck."
I say, "No such thing ‐‐"
‐Will you stop?
I need a drink.
They have nothing to drink.
‐[ Sobs ]
‐Translating to the SSU.
How they driving?
‐So far, so good.
Got that last turn on AP Alpha,
moving on.
[ Static, beep ]
‐Luis, we copy your checks
on AP Alpha.
Next will be AP Bravo H2.
‐Copy.
♪♪
‐Luis, wave to the folks
back home.
♪♪
Hey. Take a look.
‐Man, wish we could do this
every day.
Never gets old.
‐Never.
♪♪
‐Gentlemen, heads up
for sunset.
‐Roger, Vista.
We'll finish up here
and start heading back.
♪♪
‐Lucky bastards, aren't we?
‐Pause.
[ Clunk ]
[ Footsteps depart ]
[ Door closes ]
‐If you can sign it tonight,
great.
Or take it home and run it past
your personal counsel.
‐I'll leave this here.
‐Either way,
if you have any questions
or your counsel wants to
reach out, we are on standby...
‐Have you spoken to Laz?
‐A little while ago.
‐Well, is she coming?
‐I don't know.
She said she's at a meeting.
‐She should be here.
‐Well, I agree.
♪♪
[ Footsteps echo ]
[ knocking ]
♪♪
‐I'll be back in a minute.
My office.
♪♪
You could have called.
‐You wouldn't have answered.
‐What is it? We're in the middle
of a briefing meeting ‐‐
‐You know that
they're loading soon.
‐Yeah.
‐Well, you need to
say something.
‐We still don't know
what happened.
‐I'm ‐‐
I'm not talking about answers.
You've got to give them
more than lawyers.
‐You know the protocol.
‐Screw the protocol.
You got to shoulder
some responsibility here.
‐That's exactly what I'm doing.
‐I mean with the families.
‐Why are you inserting
yourself into this?
‐Because I know them.
'Cause I selected them,
I trained them.
Because I was supposed
to be able to ‐‐
‐They have crew assigned.
Everything is being
taken care of.
‐Crew's not the same as you.
They need to hear from you.
‐And say what?
‐Show them that
it fucking hurts.
‐Of course it hurts.
‐So show them that.
‐You're not helping. I know you
think you are, but you're not.
‐Why are you afraid of them?
Why can't you look them
in the eye?
‐I have a briefing
to get back to.
‐It can wait.
‐No, it can't, actually.
And this is holding things up.
‐Coward.
‐Fine.
[ Indistinct talking ]
‐My first year at NASA ‐‐
Columbia happens.
That was pure hell.
That's when I started smoking.
‐I didn't know you did.
‐Well, I quit.
But I always bring one
to a launch.
‐Oh, no, thanks.
‐You do know how ugly
this is gonna get, right?
‐It looks fine.
[ Water running ]
[ Exhales sharply ]
‐You want me to drive you home?
‐No. It's okay.
‐Are you sure?
‐Yeah.
I really appreciate it, Tom.
‐I am so sorry for your loss.
‐Thank you.
‐Ellen, anything 24/7.
‐I'm so sorry for your loss.
‐This is obscene.
What did she lose, huh?
Tell me.
She lost nothing.
‐Come on, let's go.
‐Huh? How much did you make?
‐Let him go!
‐Let's go outside.
‐Please.
‐I know you're feeling ‐‐
‐What do you know?!
‐Guillermo, please!
‐Come on, tell me!
Then you tell me!
You tell me! You tell me!
[ Light music plays ]
♪♪
‐I know. It's okay.
I was gone a long time.
[ Grunts ]
♪♪
‐I'm very sorry, ma'am.
It's a terrible loss.
‐Yeah.
♪♪
[ Indistinct talking ]
[ Water running ]
♪♪
[ Ominous music plays ]
‐One of these days,
you're gonna tell me...
♪♪
...why you want to touch God.
You don't believe in God.
♪♪
You want to be God.
‐Forward, top speed.
♪♪
[ Tires screech, rapid beeping ]
Back up.
♪♪
[ Buzzing ]
[ Dog whimpers, barks ]
[ Click ]
[ Dog barking ]
‐Hey.
You ‐‐ You kept my hand ID
in the door.
[ Dog barks ]
[ Microwave hums ]
[ Beeping ]
[ Microwave door opens, closes ]
I was at this guy's place.
We had it on, you know,
on the TV.
For a second, I was like...
Thought about Mom.
About when ‐‐
when we would watch
and how scared we'd get
when you...
Even for a second, I was like,
"What if he's gone?"
Like, not ‐‐ not the thing,
but just, like...
Like, if you were gone...
...I wouldn't even know.
‐You're high.
Whose place?
‐What?
‐Where you were at.
‐Just a friend...sort of.
Not really a friend, I guess.
‐Hmm.
I thought you'd left town.
‐I've been back for a while.
‐Gonna eat something?
‐I shouldn't have come here.
I don't feel good.
[ Vomits ]
[ Coughs ]
[ Vomits, coughs, gasps ]
[ Gags, vomits ]
[ Inhales sharply ]
♪♪
[ Buzzing ]
‐What's far...is near.
So close, it's just beneath
the skin...
♪♪
...breathing...
...pulsing...
♪♪
...racing...
...waiting for you to find it.
♪♪